Question 5.5.8. Question 8. Exam Style Questions.
A function is defined by g(x) equals 2x plus natural
log of(x - 2). This question is worth 7 marks.
State the domain and range of g. [2 marks]
For natural log of(x-2) to be defined: x - 2 > 0 . therefore. x > 2.
As x maps to 2^ plus . natural log
of(x-2) maps to -infinity. so g(x) maps to -infinity.
As x maps to infinity. g(x) maps to infinity.
Domain: x > 2. Range: y in the real numbers (all real numbers).
Sketch y equals g(x) and y equals g
inverse(x) on the same axes. [3 marks]
g has a vertical asymptote at x equals 2.
Key point: g(3) equals 6 plus 0 equals 6.
g(x): through (3. 6) with VA x equals 2.
g inverse(x): through (6. 3) with HA y equals 2.
Draw both curves reflected in y equals x.
with y equals x as dashed line.
Solve g(x) equals g inverse(x). [2 marks]
g(x) equals g inverse(x) occurs on y equals x. So solve g(x) equals x.
2x plus natural log of(x-2) equals x
x plus natural log of(x-2) equals 0
Using TI-84: x approximately 2.12.
x approximately 2.12. Point: (2.12. 2.12).
IB exam tip: Intersection of f and f inverse always occurs on
the line y equals x. This is a classic IB exam question!